Vigo
Vigo (Galician: [ˈbiɣʊ], locally [ˈbiħʊ]) is a city and municipality in Spain, in the autonomous community of Galicia in the province of Pontevedra, and the capital of the comarca of Vigo. Located in the northwest of the Iberian Peninsula, it sits on the southern shore of an inlet of the Atlantic Ocean, the Ria de Vigo, the southernmost of the Rías Baixas.

The municipality, with an area of 109.06 km2 (42.11 sq mi) and a population of 295,523 in 2024 including rural parishes, is the most populous municipality in Galicia, and the 14th-most-populous in Spain. The area of the municipality includes the Cíes Islands, part of the Atlantic Islands of Galicia National Park.

Vigo is one of the region's primary economic agents, owing to the French Stellantis Vigo plant and to its port.[3] Close to the Portugal–Spain border, Vigo is part of the Galicia–North Portugal Euroregion. The European Fisheries Control Agency is headquartered in Vigo.

History
In the Early Middle Ages, the small village of Vigo was part of the territory of Galician-speaking neighbouring towns, particularly Tui, and suffered several Viking raids. However, its number of inhabitants was so small that, historically, it was not considered a real town until around the 15th century, when the earliest records began.

In the 16th and 17th centuries, the city was attacked several times. Francis Drake attacked the city twice – in 1585 he made a successful descent on the city gathering supplies and in 1589, during an unsuccessful attack by the English Armada, Drake raided the city and temporarily occupied it, burning many buildings. Several decades later a Ottoman fleet tried to attack the city. As a result, the city's walls were built in 1656 in the reign of Philip IV of Spain. They are still partially preserved.[4][5]


19th century map of the city, by Francisco Coello de Portugal y Quesada.
At this time, and in spite of the attacks, Vigo developed its earliest commerce and was granted several privileges by the kings of Spain.

In 1702, the Battle of Vigo Bay occurred, and in 1719, because a Spanish fleet which departed from Vigo attempted to invade Scotland in support of the Jacobites, the city was occupied for ten days by a British force.[5]

In 1808, the French Army annexed Spain to the Napoleonic Empire, although Vigo remained unconquered until January, 1809. Vigo was also the first city of Europe to be freed from French rule, in what is annually celebrated on March 28 as the Reconquista (reconquest from the French in the context of the Peninsular War). In 1833, the city of Pontevedra was designated the provincial capital of the province of Pontevedra, within which lies Vigo.[5]

Vigo grew very rapidly in the 20th century, thanks to the fact that the Spanish government granted it a free trade zone in 1947 to encourage international trade and economic development in southern Galicia.

Etymology

The municipal flag waving in the wind, featuring the olive tree.
Vigo's urban area is built on both a hill-fort (Castro) and a Roman settlement. It is generally accepted that the name Vigo is derived from the Latin word vicus spacorum, meaning "small village".

The standard pronunciation of Vigo in both Galician and Spanish is [ˈbiɣo].

Vigo has been given the nickname cidade olívica (city of olives). It is said that, after the conflict between Isabel de Castilla and Juana la Beltraneja - where Galician nobility fought for the latter - the victor ordered all of Galicia's olive trees to be cut down, as they symbolized peace. The tree in Vigo however, could not be uprooted as it was planted in sacred ground. The tree is represented in the city seal, and a descendant of it is still alive in Vigo's city centre.[6]

Geography
Vigo borders the municipalities of Redondela to the northeast; to the east, Mos; to the south, O Porriño and Gondomar; and to the southwest, Nigrán. On the opposite side of the bay are the municipalities of Cangas and Moaña.

Climate

The Cíes Islands, part of the municipality of Vigo and the Atlantic Islands of Galicia National Park, partially obstruct the access from the Ria de Vigo to the open seas.
Vigo has a transitional climate between the oceanic climate "Cfb" and the warm-summer Mediterranean climate "Csb" according to the Köppen climate classification. Although Vigo is the rainiest city in Galicia, with its noticeable drying trend in the summer, Vigo's climate is more similar to the variant of the oceanic climate commonly seen in the Pacific Northwest region of North America. The all-time record high for the city is 40.8 °C (105 °F) set on August 7, 2016.[7] Vigo is known for its extreme rainfall in winter. December 1978 saw 925.6 millimetres (36.44 in) fall at the weather station in a single month.[8][9] During that month on 7 December, 175 millimetres (6.9 in) fell on a single day.[10] Normal values for 1991–2020 was 1,695 millimetres (66.7 in) falling on just 126 days indicating heavy rain to be common.[11] The airport where values are taken is located further inland at a considerably higher elevation (261 metres (856 ft)) than the city itself located on the coastline in the Ria de Vigo estuary, which is likely warmer year-round.